>> Sarah Drasner: Props,
they're one way communication,
they're passing data down
from the parent to the child.
And the simplest way of defining what
props we're using is this array.
We're always gonna use an array,
even if it's just one element,
we still have to put it in an array.
And it's always gonna be strings,
because we're calling something by a name
that's a string, even if the element
itself is not a string, it's going to be a
string that's placed inside of that array.
Props are intended for
one way communication,
and you can think of it a little like,
the component holds a variable
that's waiting to be filled out
by some piece of information.
So if we have that same
little piece of component,
we've got this little thing that's
just like, okay, I'm gonna chill here,
waiting for
something to be delivered to me.
And then if I call out num is 1,
then that 1 gets inserted into
wherever that little placeholder was.
So we can have multiple components, we
can have a child that accepts this text,
and I can say, hello Mr. Magoo, hello Mr.
Magoo, and I have these two messages.
And then I can say other
message is hi there,
that's not the same, and
then it's still hello Mr.
Magoo, because I'm still using message.
But I could have one use message,
and one use other message, and
then one is using message, and
one is using the other message.
But the reason why this is useful is
because if I need something, if I say I
need this to output differently, both of
them are going to output as that h1 now.
So I can change the way that that
layout works between the two things,
they're completely separate.
>> Sarah Drasner: Okay,
props, types, and validation, before we
were just saying props is that array,
but we could also say
what kind of thing it is.
Before we were using this text as props,
so
we could say text is either
gonna be a string or a number.
We definitely know for
sure it's gonna be a string or a number.
We could also go one step further,
which I recommend doing,
if you're gonna go one little step,
go all the way.
And say something like,
type is gonna be string,
required is true, and
then my favorite, my personal,
we always have to have favorites,
my personal favorite is this default.
Because if you have default props, that
means that you don't run into a lot of
errors if somebody forgets
to pass something.
Especially if you, let's say you have,
like, a grocery store,
most people are ordering apples.
You could have a default
that's the apples and then,
if somebody forgets to fill something out,
you might be correct.
Or there's probably better examples
than that one, but I'm hungry, so
I'm just gonna use food for
everything [LAUGH].
So we got the template that gives us that
text, so if I have something like this,
where I'm clearly passing a string,
and where is my JavaScript?
No, there it is, just took a second,
so we've got type is boolean,
required is true, and
I'm actually passing a string.
We'll get something like this view warn
in the console that'll say, you know,
invalid prop, you said that you wanted
a string, what's up, that's really rude.
[LAUGH] And we can get something else,
if you're using a view CLI,
you'll get an error in your terminal,
and it'll actually give you a bigger
error than just the console, so
that's helpful for validating those props.
Objects and arrays need, sorry.
>> Speaker 2: I know you said you weren't
going to talk about testing, but
does the testing stuff [CROSSTALK].
>> Sarah Drasner: This is a type of
validation, it's not quite testing,
if you wanted to do hook-up testing,
it's really easy to do so with vue-cli,
you can use the web-pack build and add-
>> Speaker 2: Testing your validations is
important.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, yes,
this is like a type of tiny little
unit testing-ish, but it's not full.
I wouldn't ever replace testing
with something like props.
>> Speaker 2: That wasn't where I was
going with this.
>> Sarah Drasner: Sorry.
>> Speaker 2: I was wondering if
the testing stuff has stuff built in
to be able to check these things.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, I mean,
it depends on what testing
suite you're using.
They all have different functionality,
so some of them are more geared towards,
there's monkey testing, where things check
all of these validations and go crazy.
Another one is that you're writing your
own unit test, so the answer to every
programming thing, it depends [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: The universal
answer.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah,
the universal answer, okay, so objects and
arrays need their defaults to
be returned from a function.
This is especially important
because at some points,
an object you might think if you don't
return it from a function, it might
think that you're trying to overwrite it
into the new object that you're declaring.
So definitely write your
default as a function here,
if you're going to do
this kind of validation.
You don't necessarily
need to pass the data in
props from the parent to the child either,
you can use static values for this.
So if I have this app data, and
I'm adjusting this date up and
down and up and down.
You can see that that first one is not
incrementing, and the second one is.
This is the same component, though,
this is exactly the same component.
So what we're doing here is, we're not
using the state of the parent in one.
We're saying count is 1, and
we don't have that v-bind in front of it.
And then, we're using the state of the
parent in the second one by using v-bind.
So you need to use v-bind or
that colon in order to dynamically bind
the props to the parent, that's important.
If you don't, if you leave this off,
it will not work the way that you want to,
passing the data from
the parent to the child.
If we go back to this demo, we have
the app data that was changing, and
we have this component
that is not updating.
So if we go back to here,
if we wanted to just pass a static value,
that's totally fine,
we are totally allowed to do that.
We can say count is 1, and that will be
a static integer, the main difference,
of course, is that v-bind or colon for
a shortcut, that dynamically binds
the props to the data on the parent.
Each component has its own isolated scope,
and
this is the reason why
data must be a function.
We had kind of mentioned this a little
bit earlier, and it's kind of like,
why do you have to, we had it in
an object, that was nice and clean,
why are we putting it in a function now?
Well, the reason why we can't
put it in an object is that,
once we start using components,
we'll get something like this.
Where the component doesn't have that
isolated scope unless we're returning from
a function.
It will just keep increasing all of them,
no matter which one I toggle, and
when data is a function, each component
will have its isolated scope.
This example is actually a riff off
of the docs, the documentation,
if you haven't been there before,
it's really, really well done,
it's really easy to understand,
and very, very human legible.
I tried to improve this example,
and couldn't even improve on it,
because it illustrates
that just perfectly.
One thing to note in this example is,
I had to store this data in
an object in order to pass it.
Because view won't even let you actually
do this, if you have a bunch of different
components, it's going to error and
let you know, and give you warnings.
Especially when we move to view
CLI in that build process,
it'll definitely alert you if you
do something wrong like this.
But you should be aware
that you should just be
kind of like always putting
data in as a function.
Because then you can refactor your code,
it's more malleable.
You won't run into situations where you
have to change something, and then make it
a component, and then something breaks or
something, so just get into the habit of
writing data as a function.
>> Sarah Drasner: Camel
casing will be converted, this is a nice
view thing, view understands that in
Javascript you're gonna be wanting
to be camel casing values.
But that in HTML, when we actually use
those in HTML, they're gonna need to
be kebab-cased, cuz that's what
HTML properties actually look like.
So it will convert something like boolean
value here that's camel-cased, and
change it into something like boolean
value with that kebab-case there.
It'll just do that naturally for
you, you don't have to do
anything special for that work.